README.md, before:

# Experience Tables

Total experience for Table Top Role Playing Games (TTRPGs).

This program takes as input a file written in yaml, of the form:

    - character: Ron
      points: 1
      reason: Critical failure on Expeliarimus
    - character: Harry
      points: 2
      reason: Critical failure to resist On The Edge
    - character: Hermione
      points: 1
      reason: Saving these two knuckleheads.
    - character: Hermione
      points: 2
      reason: Saving these two knuckleheads.  Again.

And produces a summary of the experience which looks like:

    Ron:      1
    Harry:    2
    Hermione: 3

## Using It In Play

During the game session, record experience as it happens using your favorite
text editor.  Make sure the file is valid yaml.  To report experience totals at
the end of the session, run:

    ./experiencetab todays-experience-file.yaml

## Running Your Campaign

If you keep all of your experience files in a single folder, you can generate
an experience summary for your entire campaign with:

    ./experiencetab experiencefolder

If you maintain a campaign website or wiki that uses markdown format, you can
have output in markdown:

    ./experiencetab --markdown experiencefolder

The output will look something like:

    | Character | XP  |
    | --------- | --- |
    | Harry    | 2 |
    | Hermione | 3 |
    | Ron      | 1 |

It will render like:

| Character | XP  |
| --------- | --- |
| Harry    | 2 |
| Hermione | 3 |
| Ron      | 1 |


### Campaign Website

If you maintain a campaign website, the `campaignexperience.sh` script can be
used to generate a markdown page that most static site generator systems will
understand.  The file includes instructions for modifying the file as needed.

    campaignexperience.sh campaign-experience-file-directory

If you are using a Windows system, you will need to run this script in a bash
shell, or under the Windows Subsystem for Linux.


## Building

You will need:

* CMake version 3.16 or better (latest is bestest).  Be aware that Linux
  distributions tend to ship CMake well behind the development curve, so
  don't assume that just because you have the latest Linux you've got a
  recent enough CMake.  The good news is that it's very easy to build the
  latest CMake from source and install it on your system.

* Version 9+ of GCC or CLang, so that you have support for the c++ filesystem
  library.  On Windows only building with mingw is supported.  The easiest
  mingw is by `choco install mingw64` and the only version officially supported
  for Windows.

* Make (on Windows, get make via `choco install make`).

### Configuring The Build

Create a folder below or outside of the root of your file checkout or archive
expansion.  I usually create "build" below the root fo the repository.

    mkdir build
    cd build

Inside of the build folder, run 

    cmake -DYAML_CPP_BUILD_TESTS=off -DYAML_CPP_BUILD_TOOLS=off ..


If you are windows you will need to add `-G "Unix Makefiles"` to the cmake
command.  Visual Studio builds are not supported.

Build and confirm a good build with the included test suite.

    make && make test

That's it, you're done.  Copy the experiencetab program to a location in your
path, and you're ready to rock and roll.

Commit message:

Updated documentation and examples
New format is now reflected in documentation and examples.

Not all tests pass yet, made a failing test for what to do when input
ends.

README.md, after:

# Experience Tables

Total experience for Table Top Role Playing Games (TTRPGs).

This program takes as input a file written in text, of the form:

    character points [reason]

The reason is optional.  The character must be a single word without spaces.
You can use whitespace characters such as spaces and tabs to format the text to
make it more readable.  For example:

    Ron       1 Critical failure on Expeliarimus
    Harry     2 Critical failure to resist On The Edge
    Hermione  1 Saving these two knuckleheads.
    Hermione  2 Saving these two knuckleheads.  Again.

And produces a summary of the experience which looks like:

    Ron:      1
    Harry:    2
    Hermione: 3

## Using It In Play

During the game session, record experience as it happens using your favorite
text editor.  To report experience totals at the end of the session, run:

    ./experiencetab todays-experience-file.txt

## Running Your Campaign

If you keep all of your experience files in a single folder, you can generate
an experience summary for your entire campaign with:

    ./experiencetab experiencefolder

If you maintain a campaign website or wiki that uses markdown format, you can
have output in markdown:

    ./experiencetab --markdown experiencefolder

The output will look something like:

    | Character | XP  |
    | --------- | --- |
    | Harry    | 2 |
    | Hermione | 3 |
    | Ron      | 1 |

It will render like:

| Character | XP  |
| --------- | --- |
| Harry    | 2 |
| Hermione | 3 |
| Ron      | 1 |


### Campaign Website

If you maintain a campaign website, the `campaignexperience.sh` script can be
used to generate a markdown page that most static site generator systems will
understand.  The file includes instructions for modifying the file as needed.

    campaignexperience.sh campaign-experience-file-directory

If you are using a Windows system, you will need to run this script in a bash
shell, or under the Windows Subsystem for Linux.


## Building

You will need:

* CMake version 3.16 or better (latest is bestest).  Be aware that Linux
  distributions tend to ship CMake well behind the development curve, so
  don't assume that just because you have the latest Linux you've got a
  recent enough CMake.  The good news is that it's very easy to build the
  latest CMake from source and install it on your system.

* Version 9+ of GCC or CLang, so that you have support for the c++ filesystem
  library.  On Windows only building with mingw is supported.  The easiest
  mingw is by `choco install mingw64` and the only version officially supported
  for Windows.

* Make (on Windows, get make via `choco install make`).

### Configuring The Build

Create a folder below or outside of the root of your file checkout or archive
expansion.  I usually create "build" below the root fo the repository.

    mkdir build
    cd build

Inside of the build folder, run 

    cmake ..


If you are windows you will need to add `-G "Unix Makefiles"` to the cmake
command.  Visual Studio builds are not supported.  You can install a recent
version of the GNU compiler (which is supported) using chocolatey.

Build and confirm a good build with the included test suite.

    make && make test

That's it, you're done.  Copy the experiencetab program to a location in your
path, and you're ready to rock and roll.
